DOCS-1191: Updating SSE params, general fixups (#1295)
minio/docs: source/reference/minio-mc/mc-idp-ldap-accesskey-create-with-login.rst

.. _minio-mc-idp-ldap-accesskey-create-with-login:

===========================================
``mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login``
===========================================

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. mc:: mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login

.. versionadded:: mc RELEASE.2024-04-18T16-45-29Z

Description
-----------

.. start-mc-idp-ldap-accesskey-create-desc

> The :mc:`mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login` uses interactive terminal-based login in prompt to authenticate with the external AD/LDAP server and generate access keys for use with MinIO.

Reviewer: Is `in prompt` supposed to be here?

Author: nope, will fix

      .. include:: /includes/common-minio-mc.rst
         :start-after: start-minio-syntax
         :end-before: end-minio-syntax

Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~

.. mc-cmd:: URL
   :required:

   the :abbr:`FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name)` of a MinIO deployment configured for AD/LDAP integration.

   For example:

   .. code-block:: none

         mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login https://minio.example.net

.. mc-cmd:: --access-key
   :optional:

   The access key to use once successfully authenticated.
   Omit to let MinIO randomly generate a value.
   
   The access key cannot contain the characters ``=`` (equal sign) or ``,`` (comma).

   Requires :mc-cmd:`~mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login --secret-key`

.. mc-cmd:: --secret-key
   :optional:

   A secret key to use once successfully authenticated.
   Omit to let MinIO randomly generate a value.

   Requires :mc-cmd:`~mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login --access-key`

.. mc-cmd:: --policy
   :optional:

   File path to the JSON-formatted :ref:`policy <minio-policy>` to use for the account.

>    This policy can only further limit those privileges associated with the authenticated AD/LDAP user.

Reviewer: an idea
```suggestion
   This policy _cannot_ grant additional privileges beyond the privileges associated with the authenticated AD/LDAP user.
```

   Omit to use the AD/LDAP user policies.

.. mc-cmd:: --name
   :optional:

   A human-readable name to use for the created access key.

.. mc-cmd:: --description
   :optional:

   Add a description for the service account.
   For example, you might specify the reason the access key exists.

.. mc-cmd:: --expiry-duration
   :optional:

>    Length of time the access key pair should remain valid for use in ``#d#h#s`` format.

Reviewer: A question about the behavior: you can specify some combination of days, hours, or seconds, but not _minutes_?

Author: I am not sure - will have to check and maybe patch that later

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following command creates a new access key pair with both an access key and secret key that you specify for the user currently authenticated on the ``minio`` alias.

.. code-block:: shell
   :class: copyable

   mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login https://minio.example.net/ --access-key my-access-key-change-me --secret-key my-secret-key-change-me

Create a new access-key pair that expires after 24 hours
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following command creates a new access key pair to use with the currently authenticated user on the ``minio`` alias.
The credentials expire after 24 hours.

The command outputs a randomly generated access key and secret key.

.. code-block:: shell
   :class: copyable

   mc idp ldap accesskey create-with-login https://minio.example.net --expiry-duration 24h

Create a new access-key pair that expires after a date
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following command creates a new access key pair to use with the currently authenticated user on the ``minio`` alias.

> The credentials expire after February 29, 2024.

Author: I've always found the linear nature of time frustrating.
